Prompt
~~~~~~

Suppose we discover a bug with our algorithm and investors for two deals had incorrect
allocations. This means that some of the investors ended up investing more than they were allowed to
while others invested less than they were allowed to. One of deals happened two years ago and the
other one happened two weeks ago. Please describe, in detail, how would you go about correcting this
issue and how would you communicate this to the affected customers.

Response
~~~~~~~~

It's a pretty interesting problem, and definitely possible! :D

I would think about handling the deal that happened two weeks ago differently from the one that happened two years ago.

1. First and foremost, we investigate the bug (analytics, logging, reports, etc.) and patch it up immediately to ensure
it doesn't impact more deals. Of course along the way we need to start drafting a postmortem that will be shared at a later
point.

2. For the affected deals, we need to bucket them into whether they happened (A) within the last 2 weeks, or (B) older than 2 weeks
like in the case of 2 years.

3. Afterwards we assess the damage in ($$) per deal and the number of impacted investors. To do that, we calculate the delta
between their desired investment amount and what their assigned prorated amount was. This will give us + or - in dollars amount.

4. Situation (A): Within the last two weeks
Hoping that because the deal was recent, the startup hasn't used the funds yet. In that case, we can rectify the issue by
(1) contacting the startup and letting them know about the discovered bug and share the postmortem, (2) share with them
the $$ amount they will need to refund to the investor(s) who paid more than what they had in mind, (3) notify the investors who
wanted to invest more but ended up investing less, asking them if they'd be willing to put that money, and (4) there's of course
the risk of the investors not wanting to invest up to their initial amount anymore, in that case we might want to ask the investors
who accidentally paid more whether they're ok to retain the invested amount to help the startup stay at their target, and perhaps
award them with something extra (like stocks, or ?).

5. Situation (B): Two years ago deals
If an investor ended up investing more than initially anticipated, the financial impact is bigger here. Due to the fact that
(1) the startup is using the money and refunds aren't really an option here, (2) the amount might be too large for AngelList to step
in here, (3) the investor is technically owed interest on top of the refund, (4) the equity they got might be valued more or less after
two years, which will impact how they perceive the news.

I would personally like to give all impacted investors on all deals (old and current) some special treatment, as we wouldn't want
to lose those paying customers. Special treatment could mean some perference in our proration algorithm.

In all the communications (emails or mail), we will need to include a link/QR code to the postmortem, the financial impact and
the steps AngelList is taking to ensure this won't happen again. I think one possible way of ensuring this won't happen is to
have a human interaction that has the final say before the deal status is moved to "approved".
